# The Tale of Bikesharing in the United States

In this project we look at bikeshare data from bikeshare companies in
Boston (Hubway) and New York City (Citi Bikes). As bikesharing services
begin to roll out in many US cities, bike sharing is becoming a more
sustainable option for commuters. Or is it?? With the rise of
bikesharing services all across the united states, we decided that 2018
was a good time to look at the publicly available bikesharing data.

In the repository, we (Swopnil and Giang) have taken around 7 million
rides from publicly available data in both New York City and Boston and distributed our analysis into
many parts. Below is how we have documented the process of our data
analysis. This analysis will be divided into five parts.

## Overview of the Data

We began by combining the datasets from Boston and New York. We took the most relevant features and added them to our dataframes and wrote Python scripts to collect, combine and feature scale the information. The datasets included the following features:

1. Duration - time each bike was checked out for
1. Start time - the date and time that the bike was checked out
1. End time - the date and time that the bike was checked back in
1. Start longitude, Start latitude - the geographical coordinates of the station the bike was checked out from 
2. End longitude, End latitude - the geographical coordinates of the station the bike was checked back into
4. User Type - Whether the bike user was a registered user or one time user
5. Birth Year - Birth year of the user (some values were missing)
6. Gender - Male, Female, or Unknown

After making the dataset, we looked at the fundamental information of the dataset using Python Data Visulalization tools like `pandas` and `matplotlib`. 

### Distribution of Gender

[img]: # (Figure of Gender Distribution NYC)
![Riders by the hour](images/2/riders_by_hour_all.png)

[img]: # (Figure of Gender Distribution Boston)
![Riders by the hour](images/2/riders_by_hour_all.png)

Looking at the data, there was an immediate observation about the gender distribution of bikeshare riders. It was that women were using bikeshare services way less than men. In New York City, the ratio of men to women was 70% to 30% whereas in Boston, this ratio was close to 80% to 20%. In either case, men were three or four times more likely to use bikeshare services. 

As to why women don't ride bicycles as much as men, there have been many theories including factors such as percieved safety mentioned in [this article by FiveThirtyEight](https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/why-women-dont-cycle/), and the data holds true to its claim. 

### Distribution of Trip Duration

[img]: # (Figure of Trip Distribution NYC)
![Riders by the hour](images/2/riders_by_hour_all.png)

[img]: # (Figure of Trip Distribution Boston)
![Riders by the hour](images/2/riders_by_hour_all.png)

In regards to the duration of the rides, people in Boston were much more likely to have checked out the bikes for a longer time. Since Citi Bikes puts a restriction of 30 minutes on bicycle checkout, most of the rides in New York were under 30 minutes. 

In the case of New York City, while unilimited bikes can be checked out per day, Citi Bike charges $4 for every 15 minutes gone over 30 minutes. 

However in Boston, people checked the bikes out for a much longer period as there was a longer checkout period for the bikes. Hence a lot of people even checked out the bikes for 5 days. 

#### Members and Nonmembers

#### Accidental Checkouts 

### Distribution by Age

## What Happens in a Day

How did we setup the
datasets like we did. Before we setup the data, firstly let's setup the
data like we did.

Firstly, in a terminal window clone the git repository. Lorem ipsum
dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nam dictum venenatis eros
sed dignissim. Vestibulum nisi lorem, bibendum ut est ut, pharetra
mattis enim. Aenean blandit ut nulla vehicula blandit. Duis non lectus
laoreet, ornare velit sit amet, vestibulum odio. Nullam fringilla
sodales justo. Morbi quis turpis maximus, vehicula massa sed, commodo
tortor. Interdum et malesuada fames ac ante ipsum primis in faucibus.
Suspendisse sed est a velit cursus imperdiet. Ut est diam, dignissim
eget metus eu, semper tincidunt nulla.

Duis volutpat in lorem et vehicula. Fusce fringilla, est in pulvinar
accumsan, diam ligula auctor lorem, vitae ultrices ante ex in urna.
Pellentesque pellentesque ultricies ligula, eu posuere risus eleifend
nec. Sed vulputate sollicitudin magna, pulvinar fringilla magna cursus
id. Cras ut ex sit amet nulla aliquet eleifend vel sed arcu. Suspendisse
quis convallis arcu. Nunc gravida quis tellus sed placerat. Nunc
facilisis suscipit augue, ut tincidunt mi vulputate sed.

Maecenas efficitur magna sed fermentum pretium. Aliquam mattis ante et
vestibulum fermentum. Phasellus efficitur maximus eros. Quisque vitae
tortor erat. Phasellus id iaculis massa, imperdiet sollicitudin ante.
Aenean ultricies ex erat. Proin vehicula nunc eu nulla scelerisque, non
porta metus laoreet. Mauris tincidunt ante elit, et cursus justo
pellentesque vel. Morbi ut pulvinar est. Maecenas arcu quam, mattis
vitae quam et, sodales porta ante. Orci varius natoque penatibus et
magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Aliquam erat
volutpat. Pellentesque a tempor lorem, non fermentum nulla. Suspendisse
potenti.

Donec efficitur faucibus tellus ac rhoncus. Nam condimentum interdum
lorem nec hendrerit. Sed id nunc lectus. Integer cursus mauris suscipit
arcu bibendum, non ullamcorper turpis vestibulum. Sed aliquet, dui sit
amet feugiat condimentum, ex ipsum faucibus magna, sit amet lacinia
lorem nisl a velit. Nam facilisis ullamcorper porttitor. Donec finibus,
diam a finibus volutpat, lacus

## Looking from Above

How did we setup the datasets like we did. Before we setup the data,
firstly let's setup the data like we did.

Firstly, in a terminal window clone the git repository. Lorem ipsum
dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nam dictum venenatis eros
sed dignissim. Vestibulum nisi lorem, bibendum ut est ut, pharetra
mattis enim. Aenean blandit ut nulla vehicula blandit. Duis non lectus
laoreet, ornare velit sit amet, vestibulum odio. Nullam fringilla
sodales justo. Morbi quis turpis maximus, vehicula massa sed, commodo
tortor. Interdum et malesuada fames ac ante ipsum primis in faucibus.
Suspendisse sed est a velit cursus imperdiet. Ut est diam, dignissim
eget metus eu, semper tincidunt nulla.

Duis volutpat in lorem et vehicula. Fusce fringilla, est in pulvinar
accumsan, diam ligula auctor lorem, vitae ultrices ante ex in urna.
Pellentesque pellentesque ultricies ligula, eu posuere risus eleifend
nec. Sed vulputate sollicitudin magna, pulvinar fringilla magna cursus
id. Cras ut ex sit amet nulla aliquet eleifend vel sed arcu. Suspendisse
quis convallis arcu. Nunc gravida quis tellus sed placerat. Nunc
facilisis suscipit augue, ut tincidunt mi vulputate sed.

Maecenas efficitur magna sed fermentum pretium. Aliquam mattis ante et
vestibulum fermentum. Phasellus efficitur maximus eros. Quisque vitae
tortor erat. Phasellus id iaculis massa, imperdiet sollicitudin ante.
Aenean ultricies ex erat. Proin vehicula nunc eu nulla scelerisque, non
porta metus laoreet. Mauris tincidunt ante elit, et cursus justo
pellentesque vel. Morbi ut pulvinar est. Maecenas arcu quam, mattis
vitae quam et, sodales porta ante. Orci varius natoque penatibus et
magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Aliquam erat
volutpat. Pellentesque a tempor lorem, non fermentum nulla. Suspendisse
potenti.

Donec efficitur faucibus tellus ac rhoncus. Nam condimentum interdum
lorem nec hendrerit. Sed id nunc lectus. Integer cursus mauris suscipit
arcu bibendum, non ullamcorper turpis vestibulum. Sed aliquet, dui sit
amet feugiat condimentum, ex ipsum faucibus magna, sit amet lacinia
lorem nisl a velit. Nam facilisis ullamcorper porttitor. Donec finibus,
diam a finibus volutpat, lacus

## From Here to There

How did we setup the datasets like we did. Before we setup the data,
firstly let's setup the data like we did.

Firstly, in a terminal window clone the git repository. Lorem ipsum
dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nam dictum venenatis eros
sed dignissim. Vestibulum nisi lorem, bibendum ut est ut, pharetra
mattis enim. Aenean blandit ut nulla vehicula blandit. Duis non lectus
laoreet, ornare velit sit amet, vestibulum odio. Nullam fringilla
sodales justo. Morbi quis turpis maximus, vehicula massa sed, commodo
tortor. Interdum et malesuada fames ac ante ipsum primis in faucibus.
Suspendisse sed est a velit cursus imperdiet. Ut est diam, dignissim
eget metus eu, semper tincidunt nulla.

Duis volutpat in lorem et vehicula. Fusce fringilla, est in pulvinar
accumsan, diam ligula auctor lorem, vitae ultrices ante ex in urna.
Pellentesque pellentesque ultricies ligula, eu posuere risus eleifend
nec. Sed vulputate sollicitudin magna, pulvinar fringilla magna cursus
id. Cras ut ex sit amet nulla aliquet eleifend vel sed arcu. Suspendisse
quis convallis arcu. Nunc gravida quis tellus sed placerat. Nunc
facilisis suscipit augue, ut tincidunt mi vulputate sed.

Maecenas efficitur magna sed fermentum pretium. Aliquam mattis ante et
vestibulum fermentum. Phasellus efficitur maximus eros. Quisque vitae
tortor erat. Phasellus id iaculis massa, imperdiet sollicitudin ante.
Aenean ultricies ex erat. Proin vehicula nunc eu nulla scelerisque, non
porta metus laoreet. Mauris tincidunt ante elit, et cursus justo
pellentesque vel. Morbi ut pulvinar est. Maecenas arcu quam, mattis
vitae quam et, sodales porta ante. Orci varius natoque penatibus et
magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Aliquam erat
volutpat. Pellentesque a tempor lorem, non fermentum nulla. Suspendisse
potenti.

Donec efficitur faucibus tellus ac rhoncus. Nam condimentum interdum
lorem nec hendrerit. Sed id nunc lectus. Integer cursus mauris suscipit
arcu bibendum, non ullamcorper turpis vestibulum. Sed aliquet, dui sit
amet feugiat condimentum, ex ipsum faucibus magna, sit amet lacinia
lorem nisl a velit. Nam facilisis ullamcorper porttitor. Donec finibus,
diam a finibus volutpat, lacus

## Conclusion

How did we setup the datasets like we did. Before we setup the data,
firstly let's setup the data like we did.

Firstly, in a terminal window clone the git repository. Lorem ipsum
dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nam dictum venenatis eros
sed dignissim. Vestibulum nisi lorem, bibendum ut est ut, pharetra
mattis enim. Aenean blandit ut nulla vehicula blandit. Duis non lectus
laoreet, ornare velit sit amet, vestibulum odio. Nullam fringilla
sodales justo. Morbi quis turpis maximus, vehicula massa sed, commodo
tortor. Interdum et malesuada fames ac ante ipsum primis in faucibus.
Suspendisse sed est a velit cursus imperdiet. Ut est diam, dignissim
eget metus eu, semper tincidunt nulla.

Duis volutpat in lorem et vehicula. Fusce fringilla, est in pulvinar
accumsan, diam ligula auctor lorem, vitae ultrices ante ex in urna.
Pellentesque pellentesque ultricies ligula, eu posuere risus eleifend
nec. Sed vulputate sollicitudin magna, pulvinar fringilla magna cursus
id. Cras ut ex sit amet nulla aliquet eleifend vel sed arcu. Suspendisse
quis convallis arcu. Nunc gravida quis tellus sed placerat. Nunc
facilisis suscipit augue, ut tincidunt mi vulputate sed.

Maecenas efficitur magna sed fermentum pretium. Aliquam mattis ante et
vestibulum fermentum. Phasellus efficitur maximus eros. Quisque vitae
tortor erat. Phasellus id iaculis massa, imperdiet sollicitudin ante.
Aenean ultricies ex erat. Proin vehicula nunc eu nulla scelerisque, non
porta metus laoreet. Mauris tincidunt ante elit, et cursus justo
pellentesque vel. Morbi ut pulvinar est. Maecenas arcu quam, mattis
vitae quam et, sodales porta ante. Orci varius natoque penatibus et
magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Aliquam erat
volutpat. Pellentesque a tempor lorem, non fermentum nulla. Suspendisse
potenti.

Donec efficitur faucibus tellus ac rhoncus. Nam condimentum interdum
lorem nec hendrerit. Sed id nunc lectus. Integer cursus mauris suscipit
arcu bibendum, non ullamcorper turpis vestibulum. Sed aliquet, dui sit
amet feugiat condimentum, ex ipsum faucibus magna, sit amet lacinia
lorem nisl a velit. Nam facilisis ullamcorper porttitor. Donec finibus,
diam a finibus volutpat, lacus
